OSDOCS-19410 back porting most recent zero-trust docs to 4.18 PR#1 (#110828)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/zero-trust-manager-verify-operands.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/zero_trust_workload_identity_manageer/zero-trust-manager-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="zero-trust-manager-verify-operands_{context}"]
= Verify the health of the operands

[role="_abstract"]

> View the status fields to verify the operational health of managed components. This information helps you confirm that the SPIRE Server, SPIRE Agent, SPIFFE CSI driver, and the SPIRE OIDC discovery provider operands are ready and functioning correctly.

Reviewer: Avoid anthrophomorphism. Check other abstracts that have similar syntax.

```suggestion
View the status fields to verify the operational health of managed components. By viewing this information, you can confirm that the SPIRE Server, SPIRE Agent, SPIFFE CSI driver, and the SPIRE OIDC discovery provider operands are ready and functioning correctly.
```

* To verify the operands, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc get ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager cluster -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2025-12-16T10:59:06Z"
    message: All components are ready
    reason: Ready
    status: "True"
    type: Ready
  - lastTransitionTime: "2025-12-16T10:59:06Z"
    message: All operand CRs are ready
    reason: Ready
    status: "True"
    type: OperandsAvailable
  operands:
  - kind: SpireServer
    message: Ready
    name: cluster
    ready: "true"
  - kind: SpireAgent
    message: Ready
    name: cluster
    ready: "true"
  - kind: SpiffeCSIDriver
    message: Ready
    name: cluster
    ready: "true"
  - kind: SpireOIDCDiscoveryProvider
    message: Ready
    name: cluster
    ready: "true"
   # ...
----

This status is reflected when all operands are healthy and stable.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on the other operands' CRs. This causes the operands' resources to be deleted once the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on the other operands' CRs. This causes the resources of the operands to be deleted once the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.
```

Author: Done

Author: Done

> The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on the other operands' CRs. This causes the resources of the operands to be deleted once the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on other CRs owned by the operand. This causes the resources of the operands to be deleted after the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.
```

Author: Done

> The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on the other operands' CRs owned by the operand. This causes the resources of the operands to be deleted after the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Operator adds the owner reference for the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CR on the other CRs owned by the operand. This causes the resources of the operands to be deleted after the `ZeroTrustWorkloadIdentityManager` CRs are deleted.
```

Author: Done
